Do you understand well what empathy is and is not?
Get ready to find out in this 1-minute journey.
First, let us forget the classic rule that goes
“do unto others as you would have them do unto you.”
The quote is valuable, indeed, but empathy goes deeper.
Empathy is not about being compassionate
and projecting our feelings onto others.
It is much deeper and authentic than that.
It is not assuming.
Each person is unique,
we must be aware that we have different histories,
experiences, and points of view.
You cannot assume you know exactly what others are feeling
since each one of us has different ways to look at the world.
Furthermore, it is not about imposing your solutions
or comparing their experience to yours.
Empathy is paying attention, and understanding, before you go on offering your help or advice.
Empathy is the ability to pay attention,
understand, and respect the experience and background of others
without projecting your own assumptions.
It means observing, recognizing, and validating
the feelings of other people to understand;
it is not an automatic assumption based on your preferences.
Our task is to go beyond and question the basic rules.
Let us pay attention,
understand, and build genuine and real connections.
Make empathy your strength for building a stronger team
and for creating a JEDI environment where everyone can shine!